README.rst, before:

======
apache
======

Install and configure a Apache Web Server.

.. note::

    See the full `Salt Formulas installation and usage instructions
    <http://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/development/conventions/formulas.html>`_.

Available states
================

.. contents::
    :local:

``apache.packages``
-------------------

Installs the Apache web server package(s) from distro repository. The main
package version can be specified with pillar key ``apache:version``.

``apache.modules``
------------------

Only for Debian systems.

Manages Apache web server modules by reading from ``apache:modules`` pillar
key (see ``pillar.example``). Each element of the list is a dictionary that
must contain the keys ``name`` and ``enabled``. Optionally, it could include
the key ``package`` to specify the name of the package providing the module.
If missing, the package will be installed.

``apache.service``
------------------

Enables and runs the Apache service.

References
==========

-  `Apache Web Server <https://httpd.apache.org/>`__
-  `Salt Formulas <https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/development/conventions/formulas.html>`__

Commit message:

Added state to define/enable custom configurations

README.rst, after:

======
apache
======

Install and configure a Apache Web Server.

.. note::

    See the full `Salt Formulas installation and usage instructions
    <http://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/development/conventions/formulas.html>`_.

Available states
================

.. contents::
    :local:

``apache.packages``
-------------------

Installs the Apache web server package(s) from distro repository. The main
package version can be specified with pillar key ``apache:version``.

``apache.modules``
------------------

Only for Debian systems.

Manages Apache web server modules by reading from ``apache:modules`` pillar
key (see ``pillar.example``). Each element of the list is a dictionary that
must contain the keys ``name`` and ``enabled``. Optionally, it could include
the key ``package`` to specify the name of the package providing the module.
If missing, the package will be installed.

``apache.config``
-----------------

Manages the Apache extra configuration files by reading form ``apache:config``
pillar key, which is  structured as follows

.. code:: yaml

    apache:
        ...
        config:
            98-logformat:
                enabled: True
                source: salt://apache/config/logformat.conf.jinja
                context:
                    app_id: 'app-123-456'
            99-security:
                enabled: True
                source: salt://apache/config/security.conf

The configuration files will be created in ``extraconfdir`` directory as
``<name>.conf`` and linked under ``enabledconfdir`` with the name
``z<name>.conf`` (e.g. ``z99-security.conf``). The ``z`` ensures that custom
files are parsed at the end.

If ``enabled`` is set to ``False`` the symlink and the file will be deleted.

``apache.service``
------------------

Enables and runs the Apache service.

References
==========

-  `Apache Web Server <https://httpd.apache.org/>`__
-  `Salt Formulas <https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/development/conventions/formulas.html>`__
